.TH taskrc 5 2009-05-14 "Task 1.7.0" "User Manuals"

.SH NAME
taskrc \- Configuration file for the task(1) command

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B $HOME/.taskrc
.B task rc:<directory-path>/.taskrc

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B task
obtains its configuration data from a file called
.I .taskrc
\&. This file is normally located in the user's home directory:

.RS
$HOME/.taskrc
.RE

The default location can be overriden using the
.I rc:
attribute when running task:

.RS
$ task rc:<directory-path>/.taskrc
.RE

If
.B task
is run without an existing configuration file it will ask if it should create a default, sample
.I .taskrc
file in the user's home directory.

The task configuration file consists of a series of "assignments" in each line. The "assignments" have the syntax:

.RS
<name-of-configuration-variable>=<value-to-be-set>
.RE

where:
.RS
.TP
<name-of-configuration-variable>
is one of the variables described below

.TP
<value-to-be-set>
is the value the variable is to be set to.
.RE

and set a configuration variable to a certain value. The equal sign ("=") is used to separate the variable
name from the value to be set. 

The hash mark, or pounf sign ("#") is used as a "comment" character. It can be used to annotte the
configuration file. It is placed at the beginning of a line and all text after the character to the
end of the line is ignored.

.SH CONFIGURATION VARIABLES
Valid variable names and their default values are:


.TP
.B add [tags] [attrs] description

.TP
.B append [tags] [attrs] description

.SH "CREDITS & COPYRIGHTS"
task was written by P. Beckingham <task@beckingham.net>.
.br
Copyright (C) 2006 \- 2009 P. Beckingham

This manpage was originally written by Federico Hernandez. It is based on the task man page, which
was originally written by P.C. Shyamshankar.

task is distributed under the GNU General Public License.  See
http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.txt for more information.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR task (1)

For more information regarding task, the following may be referenced:

.TP
<http://www.beckingham.net/task.html>
The official site.

.TP
<http://groups.google.com/group/taskprogram>
The official mailing list.

.TP
<http://github.com/pbeckingham/task/>
The official code repository.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Bugs in task may be reported to the issue-tracker at

.RS
<http://github.com/pbeckingham/task/issues>
.RE

or to the mailing list at

.RS
<http://groups.google.com/group/taskprogram>
.RE
