.TH task 7 2009-05-11 "Task 1.6.0" "User Manuals"

.SH NAME
task \- A command line todo manager.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B task
[subcommand] [args]

.SH DESC.TP
.BTION
Task is a command line todo manager. It maintains a list of tasks that you want
to do, allowing you to add/remove, and otherwise manipulate them. Task has a
rich list of subcommands that allow you to do various things with it.

.SH SUBCOMMANDS

.TP
.B
add [tags] [attrs] description
Adds a new task to the tasklist.

.TP
.B
append [tags] [attrs] description
Appends extra information to an existing task.

.TP
.B
annotate ID description
Adds an annotation to an existing task.

.TP
.B
completed [tags] [attrs] description
Provides a chronological listing of all completed tasks matching specified
criteria.

.TP
.B
ID [tags] [attrs] [description]
Modifies task with specified parameters.

.TP
.B
ID /from/to/
Performs one substitution on task description for fixing mistakes.

.TP
.B
ID /from/to/g
Performs all substitutions on task description for fixing mistakes.

.TP
.B
delete ID
Deletes task from task list.

.TP
.B
undelete ID
Undeletes task from the task list, provided a report has not
been executed.

.TP
.B
info ID
Shows all information about a task.

.TP
.B
start ID
Marks task as started.

.TP
.B
stop ID
Removes
.I started
status from task.

.TP
.B
done ID
Marks task as done.

.TP
.B
undo ID
Marks task as pending, provided a report has not been executed.

.TP
.B
projects
Lists all project names used, and the number of projects for each.

.TP
.B
tags
Lists all tags used.

.TP
.B
summary
Shows a report of task status by project.

.TP
.B
history
Shows a report of task history by month.

.TP
.B
ghistory
Shows a graphical report of task status by month.

.TP
.B
next
Shows the most important pending tasks for each project.

.TP
.B
calendar
Shows a monthly calendar, with tasks with due-dates marked.

.TP
.B
stats
Shows task database statistics.

.TP
.B
import [file]

Imports tasks from a variety of formats

.TP
.B
export [file]
Exports all tasks as a CSV file.

.TP
.B
color
Displays all possible colors.

.TP
.B
version
Display version information

.TP
.B
help
Shows a long help text.

.SH REPORTS

A report is a listing of information from the task database. There are several
built-in reports currently in task. These are list, long, ls, newest, oldest,
overdue and active.

The report names can be used as subcommands to invoke the corresponding report.

.SH ATTRIBUTES AND METADATA

.TP
.B
ID
Tasks can be specified uniquely by IDs, which are simply the index of the task
in a report. Be careful, as the IDs of tasks may change after a modification to
the database. Always run a report to check you have the right ID for a task.

.TP
.B
+tag|-tag
Tags are arbitrary words associated with a task. Use + to add a tag and - to
remove a tag from a task.

.TP
.B
project:<project-name>
Specify the project to which a task is related to.

.TP
.B
priority:H|M|L|N
Specify High, Medium, Low and No priority for a task.

.TP
.B
due:<due-date>
Specify the due-date of a task.
.\" TODO: How to specify dates?

.TP
.B
recur:<frequency>
Specify the frequency of recurrence of a task.
.\" TODO: How to specify frequency?

.TP
.B
until:<end-date-of-recurrence>
Specify the Recurrence end-date of a task.

.TP
.B
fg:<color-spec>
Specify foreground color.

.TP
.B
bg:<color-spec>
Specify background color.

.TP
.B
rc:<path>
Specify alternate configuration file.

.SH COMMAND ABBREVIATION
All task commands may be abbreviated as long as a unique prefix is used. Eg.

$> task li

is an unambiguous abbreviation for

$> task list

but

$> task l

could be list, ls or long.

.SH "CREDITS & COPYRIGHTS"
.\" Insert copyright statements and credit to Paul here.

This manpage was written by P.C. Shyamshankar

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Bugs in task may be reported to the issue-tracker at
<http://github.com/pbeckingham/task/issues>

.SH SEE ALSO
For more information regarding task, the following may be referenced.

.TP
.I
<http://www.beckingham.net/task.html>
The official site.

.TP
.I
<http://groups.google.com/group/taskprogram/>
The official mailing list.

.TP
.I
<http://github.com/pbeckingham/task/>
The official code repository.
