.TH task-tutorial 5 2010-10-07 "task 1.9.3" "User Manuals"

.SH NAME
task-tutorial \- A tutorial for the task(1) command line todo manager.

.SH DESCRIPTION
This tutorial contains a narrative and a series of commands that lead you
through different scenarios and illustrate the capabiliries of taskwarrior.
We will begin with basic usage, and progress to the more powerful features.
It is recommended that you work through these examples alongside this tutorial.

Taskwarrior has many features and you will probably not use them all, but there
are likely to be several capabilities that work well with your style of managing
tasks.  Everyone has different usage patterns.

.SH BASIC USAGE
Let's get started.  We're planning a party, and there is a lot of work to do, so
let's capture these tasks, by using the 'add' command.

.br
.RS
$ task add Select a free weekend in November
.br
$ task add Select and book a venue
.br
$ task add Come up with a guest list
.br
$ task add Mail invitations
.br
$ task add Select a caterer
.RE

The '$' prompt shows that these are commands that you type (don't include the
$ symbol yourself), and lines without the prompt are those displayed by
taskwarrior.  Let's take a look at our tasks so far.

.br
.RS
$ task list
.RE

Now I've already ordered a cake, so rather than 'add' this, I'm going to 'log'
it.  This just means that I want to keep track of the task, but I've already
done it.  It saves me a step.

.br
.RS
$ task log Order a special cake
.RE

As for those invitations, I'm going to need to design them first.  And I'm also
going to need print them.  Here we are duplicating a task and making a
substitution.  Notice how the commands can be abbreviated, provided they are
still unique.

.br
.RS
$ task 4 duplicate /Mail/Design/
.br
$ task 4 dup /Mail/Print/
.br
$ task list
.RE

That looks good - but now I think of it, I already have my guest list, so I can
mark that one as done.

    $ task 3 done
    $ task list

And that's basic usage, and you already know enough to be productive using
taskwarrior.  If you stopped here, you would be perfectly able to manage your
task list.

But if you want to see what it can really do, keep reading...

.SH PROJECTS
Remember to pay the rent at the end of the month.

    $ task add Pay teh rent on teh 31st

Oh, that was sloppy, but it can be fixed with a global substitution.

    $ task 7 /teh/teh/g
    $ task list

We can now use projects to separate home chores from the party preparation.
Let's assign that last task to the 'home' project.  Note that a task may only
belong to one project.

    $ task 7 project:home

And we will put those first six tasks in the 'party' project.  See how we
specify a range of tasks?  Taskwarrior will want to confirm bulk changes like
this, but we'll accept all changes here.

    $ task 1-6 project:party

Now that we have multiple projects, as shown here, we can use project as a
filter for the list report.  You can see again that we can abbreviate 'list'
and 'project', but when we abbreviate 'party', we are filtering all the projects
that begin with 'par'.

    $ task projects
    $ task list project:home
    $ task li pro:par

.SH PRIORITIES
Priorities are another way to organize tasks.  You can use priority values of
high, medium and low, and taskwarrior knows these as H, M or L.

    $ task 1-3,5 priority:H
    $ task list

You can remove priorities by specifying a blank value.

    $ task 3 pri:

.SH TAGS
A task may only have one project, but it may have any number of tags, which are
just single words associated with the task.

    $ task list

I can go to the print shop at the mall, and do all the invitation tasks, so
let's tag them all.

    $ task 3,5,6 +mall

The long report shows tags, too,

    $ task long

and I can use tags as a filter to any report too.

    $ task list +mall

I made a mistake - I can't mail out the invitations at the mall, so let's remove
that tag.

    $ task 3 -mall

.SH MODIFICATIONS
Task 7 is not worded correctly, so I can modify that by specifying a task ID
and a new description.  This is also considered a bulk change, and so requires
confirmation.

    $ task 7 Pay rent at the end of the month

We'll need music.  I can prepend to that.  I can append to that.

    $ task add music
    $ task 8 prepend Select some
    $ task 8 append for after dinner
    $ task list

I can also go straight into an editor and modify anything.

    $ task edit

Sometimes the command will confuse the shell.  In this case, what would happen
if there was a file named 'bands' in the current directory?

    $ task add Hire a band?

The shell would expand that wildcard, so to avoid that, you can escape the
wildcard, or quote the whole description.

    $ task add Hire a band\\?
    $ task add "Hire a band?"

You can also use the minus minus operator which tells taskwarrior to stop being
clever and interpret the rest of the arguments as a task description.
Otherwise, that +dj would be interpreted as a tag.

    $ task add -- Hire a band\\? +dj

We don't need a band, so the easiest way to get rid of that task is to undo the
last change.  Taskwarrior has a complete undo stack, so you can undo all the way
back to the beginning.

    $ task undo

The undo operation gets rid of the task completely, but I could also have just
deleted the task, then the deletion itself would be tracked, and also undo-able.

    $ task 1 delete
    $ task undo

.SH INFO
During that undo operation, taskwarrior displayed metadata that is associated
with the task.  You can display this with the info command, and its shortcut.

    $ task 1 info
    $ task 1

There are also statistics that taskwarrior gathers, which I can display.

    $ task stats

.SH ANNOTATIONS
Annotations are little notes that can be added to a task.  There can be any
number, and each has a time stamp.

    $ task 1 annotate the 12th looks good
    $ task 1 annotate or the 13th
    $ task list

You can choose to display annotations in different ways.

    $ task list rc.annotations:full
    $ task list rc.annotations:sparse
    $ task list rc.annotations:none

Annotations can be removed by providing a matching pattern.

    $ task 1 denotate 13th
    $ task list

.SH CONFIGURATION
There is a 'show' command, that is used to display the active configuration.
There are hundreds of settings that can be changed, and every one has a sensible
default.

    $ task show

If you want a complete list of all the settings and their meanings, read the man
page.

    $ man taskrc

The 'config' command is used to modify the settings, and in this case the
configuration variable 'answer' is given the value of forty-two.

    $ task config answer forty-two

The 'show' command indicates that the value was changed, and also that the
variable is unrecognized.  The show command performs a detailed check on your
configuration, and alerts you to several kinds of problem.  The config command
can also remove a value.

    $ task show answer
    $ task config answer

A very powerful feature is the ability to override the configuration variables
temporarily.  Here I am requesting an ascending sort on the description field
only.

    $ task rc.report.list.sort=description+ list

.SH DEFAULTS
There is a default command, which can be set to anything, in this case it is set
to the 'list' report.  Then running taskwarrior with no command name runs the
default command.

    $ task config default.command list
    $ task

I can also specify a default priority and project, which means that any tasks
added will use them, unless an alternative is provided.

    $ task config default.priority H
    $ task config default.project Work
    $ task add New task
    $ task list

Let's just revert those changes, to clean up.

    $ task undo
    $ task config default.priority
    $ task config default.project

.SH ALIASES
You can create aliases to effectively rename commands.

    $ task config alias.zzz list
    $ task zzz

You can abbreviate those, too.

    $ task z

.SH COLOR
All the examples so far have been shown with color turned off.  How about some
color?

    $ task config color on
    $ task list

What you see is the result of a set of color rules being applied to the tasks.
There is a hierarchy of color rules that colorize a task based on the metadata

Here is an example of an explicit override to the color rules where a specific
task is given a red background.

    $ task 1 bg:on_red
    $ task list
    $ task 1 bg:

Taskwarrior supports 256 colors on certain terminal emulators, and this shows
the range of colors available.

    $ task color

This is how to show a color sample.

   $ task color white on red

Or samples of all the active color settings.

    $ task color legend

Themes are a simple way to use coordinated color schemes so by including a color
theme into the configuration file, you can see some striking effects.  For a
blue theme, add this line to your .taskrc file:

    include /usr/local/share/doc/task/rc/dark-blue-256.theme

For a red theme:

    include /usr/local/share/doc/task/rc/dark-red-256.theme

For a general dark theme:

    include /usr/local/share/doc/task/rc/dark-256.theme

Here is a color rule that specifies a dark blue background for all tasks that
are part of the 'party' project, and uses bold to identify any tasks with the
keyword 'invitations' in the description.

    $ task "rc.color.project.party=on rgb001" rc.color.keyword.invit=bold list

There is a man page with a writeup of all the color capabilities.

    $ man task-color

.SH ACTIVE TASKS
I'm selecting a venue, so let's indicate that task 2 is active by starting it.
See how active tasks are affected by the color rules.

    $ task 2 start
    $ task list

There is an active report that shows only active tasks, and you can mark any
active task as inactive, by stopping it.

    $ task active
    $ task 2 stop

.SH DUE DATES
Due dates can be specified as dates, durations into the future or past, by
mnemonic, ordinal of day of week.


Some of these dates are in the past, so now you see there are overdue tasks.
Due dates have different colors for due, imminent, today and overdue values.

    $ task 1 due:7/31/2010
    $ task 1 due:2wks
    $ task 1 due:-2wks
    $ task 1 due:eom
    $ task 2 due:8th
    $ task 2 due:sunday
    $ task 5 due:eow

You can also choose the format - for input and output.

    $ task rc.dateformat.report:Y-M-DTH:N:SZ list

.SH CALENDAR
When tasks have due dates, you can see them on the calendar.

    $ task calendar

Taskwarrior provides sample holiday files.  You can create your own, or use one
of the samples to show holidays on the calendar.

Try adding this line to your ~/.taskrc file:

    include /usr/local/share/doc/task/rc/holidays-US.rc

Then:

    $ task calendar

You can see the whole year, see due tasks as well, and see the holidays:

    $ task cal 2010
    $ task rc.calendar.details:full cal
    $ task rc.calendar.holidays:full cal

.SH RECURRENCE
Remember the task we added to pay the rent?  We're going to need to do that
every month.  Recurring tasks allow us to set up a single task that keeps coming
back, just as you'd expect.

    $ task 7 info
    $ task 7 due:eom recur:monthly
    $ task 7


You can also limit the extent of the recurrence.  Let's make sure the task
doesn't recur after the lease ends.

    $ task 7 until:eoy

And there is a recurring report that shows you only the recurring tasks.

    $ task recurring

To illustrate a point, let's set up a recurring annual task as a reminder to pay
taxes, and put the due date in the past.  This will cause task to fill in the
gaps, and create a series of severely overdue tasks.

    $ task add Pay taxes due:4/15/2007 recur:yearly
    $ task long

Deletions to recurring tasks can be escalated to include all the recurrences of
a task.

    $ task 11 delete # y y
    $ task list

.SH SHELL
You can use the shell command to create a more immersive environment.  Any task
command you run outside the shell can also be run inside the shell, without the
need to prefix every command with "task".

    $ task shell
    task> projects
    task> tags
    task> list
    task> quit

.SH SPECIAL TAGS
You've seen tags, but there are also 'special tags' that have effects on
individual tasks.  The 'nocolor' special tag causes the color rules to be
bypassed.

    $ task 6 +nocolor
    $ task list

Special tags are highlighted by the 'tags' command.

    $ task tags

There are others - the 'nonag' special tag prevents the generation of nag
messages when you work on low priority tasks when there are more important ones.

    $ task 6 -nocolor

The 'nocal' special tag will prevent a task from appearing on the calendar.

.SH WAITING
When you have a task with a due date that is far out into
the future, you may want to hide that task for a while.

    $ task add Look for new apartment due:eoy
    $ task list

You can provide a wait date for a task, and it will remain hidden until that
date.  It will no longer be cluttering your task list, but it is still there,
and visible using the 'waiting' report.  When the wait date comes, the task
will just pop back into the list.

    $ task 10 wait:12/1/2010
    $ task list
    $ task waiting

To illustrate this, let's set up a task with a very short wait time of five
seconds.

    $ task add Do something in a few seconds
    $ task 11 wait:5s
    $ task list

It's gone.

    (wait 5 seconds)
    $ task list

And it's back.  Now we delete it.

    $ task 11 rc.confirmation:no delete

---------------------------------------- Dependencies ----------------------------------------------

task list pro:party                      Taskwarrior supports dependencies.  Let's take a look at the
                                         party planning tasks, and assign dependencies.

task 3 depends:6                         Let's see.  I can't mail invitations until they are printed.
task 6 dep:5                             I can't print them until I design them.
task 2 dep:1                             I need to select a weekend before a location.
task 5 dep:1,2                           Design depends on location and weekend.
task 4 dep:1                             And the caterer needs to know where.

task long pro:party                      All my tasks are blocked except task 1.  That makes sense.

task 5 dep:-1                            Hmm, that double dependency isn't right.

task blocked                             Here are the blocked tasks.
task unblocked                           and the opposite, the unblocked tasks.

task 1 info                              If we look at task 1 closely, we can see that it is blocking
task 2 info                               2 and 4.  And if we look at task 2, we see that it is
                                         blocked by 1, and blocking 5.

                                         This is called a dependency chain, which is a string of tasks
                                         that are all connected not only by their project, but by
                                         dependencies.

                                         Now we understand that task 1 should be done first, but you
                                         may still violate the laws of physics if you wish. Let's
                                         complete task 2 and see what happens.

task 2 done  (y)                         Taskwarrior realizes what you are doing, and offers to fix
task 1 info                              the dependency chain to reflect what you have done.

---------------------------------------- Reports ---------------------------------------------------

task minimal                             Taskwarrior has a good many reports.  There is the bare minimum.
task ls                                  The simple.
task list                                The standard.
task long                                The kitchen sink.
task all                                 The packrat.
task completed                           Nostalgia.
task recurring                           Groundhog day.
task waiting                             Surprises.
task blocked                             Wedged.
task unblocked                           Unencumbered.
task oldest                              Ancient history.
task newest                              Contemporary.
task timesheet                           Corporate.
task next                                And "what should I work on next?"  This one can be useful
                                         because it pulls a few of the highest priority tasks from
                                         all the projects.  It's the report we should all be using.

---------------------------------------- Custom Report ---------------------------------------------

                                         You can even define your own custom report.  Let's quickly
                                         create a custom report - we'll call it foo - and I can
                                         choose from a long list of fields to include in the report,
                                         but I want to see the ID, the date when I entered the task,
                                         and the description.  I can specify the labels for those
                                         columns, the sort order of the report, and I can filter.

cat >> ~/.taskrc
report.foo.description=My own report
report.foo.columns=id,entry,description
report.foo.labels=ID,Entered,Description
report.foo.sort=entry+,description+
report.foo.filter=status:pending

task help | grep foo                     Custom reports also show up on the help output.

task show report.foo                     I can inspect the configuration.

task foo                                 And they can be run just like the other reports.

---------------------------------------- Charts ----------------------------------------------------

task history                             The history report gives monthly totals of tasks added,
task history.annual                      completed and deleted.  There is also an annual version.

task ghistory                            There is a graphical monthly...
task ghistory.annual                     and annual version.

task summary                             There is a project summary report that shows progress in
                                         all the projects.

---------------------------------------- Advanced Filters ------------------------------------------

task list                                Filters are a very powerful tool.  First here is an
task list invit                          unfiltered list, which shows all tasks.  Now again, but with
                                         the text 'invit', which acts as a filter on the description
                                         field.

task list description.contains:invit     This is the equivalent form using attribute modifiers.  In
                                         this example we are filtering on descriptions that contain
                                         the word fragment.  Here we are using the 'contains'
                                         modifier, but there are many others.

task list desc.word:the                  All tasks containing the whole word 'the'.  See how
                                         annotations are also searched?

task list desc.noword:invitations        Here is a list of all tasks that do not contain the whole
                                         word 'invitations'.

task list pro:party                      Here list all tasks in the 'party' project.
task list pro.is:party                   And the full equivalent.
task list pro.not:party                  Here list tasks that are not in the 'party' project.  I
                                         could have also used 'isnt' here - there are several
                                         synonyms for modifiers, so that the filter can be written
                                         so that it reads naturally.

task list pro:party pri.over:L           Here the 'over' modifier is filtering on priorities that
                                         sort higher than 'Low', and also filtering on the 'party'
                                         project.  There are two terms in this filter.

task list pro:party limit:2              Same again, but only show me the first two tasks.
task list limit:page                     Now all tasks, but just show the first page of tasks.  I
                                         don't have a page full of tasks here, but you get the idea.

task all status:pending                  Now you can see how some of the built-in reports work.  The
                                         'list' report is just all tasks, filtered so that only the
                                         pending tasks are shown.

task all status:waiting                  The 'waiting' report is similarly defined.

---------------------------------------- Import/Export ---------------------------------------------

task export.csv                          You can export your tasks.  Here you see all tasks being
                                         exported in CSV format.

task export.csv venue                    Let's just export one task in CSV format...
task export.vcalendar venue              Or in VCalendar format...
task export.yaml venue                   Or YAML.

cat file.text                            I can also import.  Here I am importing simple lines of
task import file.text                    text.  Taskwarrior recognizes the format and confirms.

cat file.yaml                            Here is a YAML example.  Taskwarrior can read several
task import file.yaml                    formats, including old versions task data.  Using YAML,
                                         you can round-trip the data without loss.

task new limit:2                         Here are the imported tasks.

---------------------------------------- Help ------------------------------------------------------

.SH HELP
You'll find a quick reference page built in, with the 'help' command, or perhaps
you'll want to take a look at the several man pages installed.

.br
.RS
$ task help
.RE

.SH "CREDITS & COPYRIGHTS"
task was written by P. Beckingham <paul@beckingham.net>.
.br
Copyright (C) 2006 \- 2010 P. Beckingham

This man page was originally written by Federico Hernandez.

task is distributed under the GNU General Public License. See
http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.txt for more information.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR task(1),
.BR taskrc(5),
.BR task-faq(5),
.BR task-color(5),
.BR task-sync(5)

For more information regarding task, the following may be referenced:

.TP
The official site at
<http://taskwarrior.org>

.TP
The official code repository at
<git://tasktools.org/task.git/>

.TP
You can contact the project by writing an email to
<support@taskwarrior.org>

.SH REPORTING BUGS
.TP
Bugs in task may be reported to the issue-tracker at
<http://taskwarrior.org>
