.TH task 1 2009-05-14 "Task 1.7.1" "User Manuals"

.SH NAME
task \- A command line todo manager.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B task [subcommand] [args]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Task is a command line TODO list manager. It maintains a list of tasks that you
want to do, allowing you to add/remove, and otherwise manipulate them.  Task
has a rich list of subcommands that allow you to do various things with it.

.SH SUBCOMMANDS

.TP
.B add [tags] [attrs] description
Adds a new task to the task list.

.TP
.B append [tags] [attrs] description
Appends more information to an existing
task.

.TP
.B annotate ID description
Adds an annotation to an existing task.

.TP
.B completed [tags] [attrs] description
Provides a chronological listing of all completed tasks matching specified
criteria.

.TP
.B ID [tags] [attrs] [description]
Modifies the existing task with provided information.

.TP
.B ID /from/to/
Performs one substitution on task description for fixing mistakes.

.TP
.B ID /from/to/g
Performs all substitutions on task description for fixing mistakes.

.TP
.B duplicate ID [tags] [attrs] [description]
Duplicates the specified task and allows modifications.

.TP
.B delete ID
Deletes the specified task from task list.

.TP
.B undelete ID
Undeletes the specified task, provided a report has not yet been run.

.TP
.B info ID
Shows all data and metadata for the specified task.

.TP
.B start ID
Marks the specified task as started.

.TP
.B stop ID
Removes the
.I start
time from the specified task.

.TP
.B done ID [tags] [attrs] [description]
Marks the specified task as done.

.TP
.B undo ID
Marks the specified task as pending, provided a report has not yet been run.

.TP
.B projects
Lists all project names used, and the number of tasks for each.

.TP
.B tags
Show a list of all tags used.

.TP
.B summary
Shows a report of task status by project.

.TP
.B timesheet [weeks]
Shows a weekly report of tasks completed and started.

.TP
.B history
Shows a report of task history by month.

.TP
.B ghistory
Shows a graphical report of task status by month.

.TP
.B next
Shows the most important pending tasks for each project.

.TP
.B calendar
Shows a monthly calendar with due tasks marked.

.TP
.B active
Shows all tasks that are started but not comleted.

.TP
.B overdue
Shows all incomplete tasks that are beyond their due date.

.TP
.B stats
Shows task database statistics.

.TP
.B import \fIfile
Imports tasks from a variety of formats.

.TP
.B export \fIfile
Exports all tasks as a CSV file.

.TP
.B color
Displays all possible colors.

.TP
.B version
Shows the task version number and current settings in the task configuration
file.

.TP
.B help
Shows the long usage text.

.SH REPORT SUBCOMMANDS

A report is a listing of information from the task database. There are several
built-in reports currently in task. The output and sort behaviour of these
subcommands can be configured in the configuration file.

.TP
.B ls [tags] [attrs] [description]
Provides a minimal listing of tasks with specified criteria.

.TP
.B list [tags] [attrs] [description]
Provides a more detailed listing of tasks with specified criteria.

.TP
.B long [tags] [attrs] [description]
Provides the most detailed listing of tasks with specified criteria.

.TP
.B newest [tags] [attrs] [description] | newest [limit]
Shows the newest tasks with specified criteria.

.TP
.B oldest [tags] [attrs] [description] | oldest [limit]
Shows the oldest tasks with specified criteria

.SH ATTRIBUTES AND METADATA

.TP
.B ID
Tasks can be specified uniquely by IDs, which are simply the index of the
task in a report. Be careful, as the IDs of tasks may change after a
modification to the database. Always run a report to check you have the right
ID for a task. IDs can be given to task as a sequence, for example,
.br
.B
task del 1 2 5-10,12

.TP
.B +tag|-tag
Tags are arbitrary words associated with a task. Use + to add a tag and - to
remove a tag from a task.

.TP
.B project:<project-name>
Specify the project to which a task is related to.

.TP
.B priority:H|M|L|N
Specify High, Medium, Low and No priority for a task.

.TP
.B due:<due-date>
Specify the due-date of a task.

.TP
.B until:<end-date-of-recurrence>
Specify the Recurrence end-date of a task.

.TP
.B recur:<frequency>
Specify the frequency of recurrence of a task.

.TP
.B fg:<color-spec>
Specify foreground color.

.TP
.B bg:<color-spec>
Specify background color.

.TP
.B rc:<path>
Specify alternate configuration file.

.SH SPECIFYING DATES AND FREQUENCIES

.SS DATES
Task reads dates from the commandline and displays dates in the
reports.  The expected and desired date format is determined by the
configuration variable
.I dateformat
in the task configuration file.

.RS
.TP
Exact specification
task ... due:7/14/2008

.TP
Relative wording
task ... due:today
.br
task ... due:yesterday
.br
task ...  due:tomorrow

.TP
Day number with ordinal
task ... due:23rd

.TP
End of week (Friday), month and year
task ... due:eow
.br
task ... due:eom
.br
task ... due:eoy

.TP
Next occuring weekday
task ... due:fri
.RE

.SS FREQUENCIES
Recurrence periods. Task supports several ways of specifying the
.I frequency
of recurring tasks.

.RS
.TP
daily, day, 1d, 2d, ...
Every day or a number of days.

.TP
weekdays
Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, Fridays and skipping weekend days.

.TP
weekly, 1w, 2w, ...
Eery week or a number of weeks.

.TP
biweekly, fortnight
Every two weeks.

.TP
quaterly, 1q, 2q, ...
Every three months, a quarter, or a number of quaters.

.TP
semiannual
Every six months.

.TP
annual, yearly, 1y, 2y, ...
Every year or a number of years.

.TP
biannual, biyearly, 2y
Every two years.
.RE


.SH COMMAND ABBREVIATION
All task commands may be abbreviated as long as a unique prefix is used. E.g.

.RS
$ task li
.RE

is an unambiguous abbreviation for

.RS
$ task list
.RE

but

.RS
$ task l
.RE

could be list, ls or long.

.SH EXAMPLES

A small section for examples e.g. some stuff from
.br
http://www.beckingham.net/30second.html
.br
http://www.beckingham.net/simple.html

.SH FILES

.TP
~/.taskrc User configuration file.

.TP
~/.task The default directory where task stores its data files. The location
can be configured in the configuration file.

.TP
~/.task/pending.data The file that contains the tasks that are not yet done.

.TP
~/.task/completed.data The file that contains the completed "done" tasks.

.SH "CREDITS & COPYRIGHTS"
task was written by P. Beckingham <task@beckingham.net>.
.br
Copyright (C) 2006 \- 2009 P. Beckingham

This manpage was originally written by P.C. Shyamshankar, and has been modified
and supplemented by Federico Hernandez.

task is distributed under the GNU General Public License.  See
http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.txt for more information.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR taskrc (5)

For more information regarding task, the following may be referenced:

.TP
<http://www.beckingham.net/task.html>
The official site.

.TP
<http://groups.google.com/group/taskprogram>
The official mailing list.

.TP
<http://github.com/pbeckingham/task/>
The official code repository.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Bugs in task may be reported to the issue-tracker at

.RS
<http://github.com/pbeckingham/task/issues>
.RE

or to the mailing list at

.RS
<http://groups.google.com/group/taskprogram>
.RE
